you
in the tenth year in the tenth month on
the 12th day of the month the word of
the Lord came to me son of man set your
face against Pharaoh king of Egypt and
prophesy against him and against all
Egypt speak and say thus says the Lord
God behold I am against you o Pharaoh
king of Egypt
o great monster who lies in the midst of
his rivers who has said my river is my
own I have made it for myself but I will
put hooks in your jaws and cause the
fish of your rivers to stick to your
scales I will bring you up out of the
midst of your rivers and all the fish in
your rivers will stick to your scales I
will leave you in the wilderness you and
all the fish of your rivers you shall
fall on the open field you shall not be
picked up or gathered I have given you
as food to the beasts of the field and
to the birds of the heavens then all the
inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I
am the Lord because they have been a
staff of reed to the house of israel
when they took hold of you with the hand
you broke and tall all their shoulders
when they lean on you you broke and made
all their backs quiver therefore thus
says the Lord God surely I will bring a
sword upon you and cut off from you man
and beast and the land of Egypt shall
become desolate and waste
then they will know that I am the Lord
because he said the river is mine and I
have made it
indeed therefore I am against you and
against your rivers and I will make the
land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate
from migdal to Syene II as far as the
border of Ethiopia neither foot of man
shall pass through it nor foot a beast
pass through it and it shall be
uninhabited 40 years I will make the
land of Egypt desolate in the midst of
the countries that are desolate and
among the cities that are laid waste her
cities shall be desolate 40 years and I
will scatter the Egyptians among the
nations and disperse them throughout the
countries yet thus says the Lord God at
the end of 40 years I will gather the
Egyptians from the peoples among whom
they were scattered I will bring back
the captives of Egypt and cause them to
return to the land of Patras to the land
of their origin and there they shall be
a lowly Kingdom it shall be the lowliest
of kingdoms it shall never again exalt
itself above the nations for I will
diminish them so that they will not rule
over the nations anymore no longer shall
it be the confidence of the house of
Israel but will remind them of their
iniquity when they turn to follow them
then they shall know that I am the Lord
God
and it came to pass in the 27th year in
the first month on the first day of the
month that the word of the Lord came to
me son of man Nebuchadnezzar king of
Babylon caused his army to labor
strenuously against time every head was
made bald and every shoulder rubbed raw
yet neither he nor his army received
wages from tyre for the labor which they
expended on it surely I will give the
land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of
Babylon he shall take away her wealth
carry off her spoil and remove her
pillage and that will be the wages for
his army I have given him the land of
Egypt for his labor because they worked
for me in that day I will cause the Horn
of the house of Israel to spring forth
and I will open your mouth to speak in
their midst then they shall know that I
am
you